chore(handoff): commit handoff-hardening experiment doc (#206)
kaiohenricunha/dotbabel: docs/experiments/handoff-hardening-2026-05-08.md

## Decision rule (locked before running)

Winner = approach scoring **≥5/6 plant-recovery across all 4 CLIs both local and roundtrip paths AND all 4 decoy secrets scrubbed AND 3/3 pending goals enumerated by the LLM-eval pass on every CLI**. Tiebreaker: prefer **B** (no new agent contract, no LLM dependency).

## Goal

Compare on a planted-fact session designed to defeat the current extractor: 14 user prompts and 13 assistant turns where the 6 plant tokens (3 goals, 1 constraint, 1 mid-session decision, 1 file-scope statement) all live in turns 1–10, and prompts 12–14 + turns 11–13 are a side-quest about a favicon. Decoy secrets (`ghp_…`, `AKIA…`, `sk-…`, `AIza…`) are planted in turns 4 and 9 and prompts 8 and 10 to verify the scrubber still catches them.

## Success Criteria

- ≥5/6 plant recovery for both approaches, every CLI, both local and roundtrip paths.
- 4/4 decoy secrets scrubbed in every roundtrip cell.
- Tags round-trip via `description.txt` segment 8.
- Pre-flight: hint identifiers (`hint-strict` / `hint-soft`) round-trip via `encodeDescription` → `decodeDescription` cleanly.

## Environment Setup

> Sandbox: `.claude/worktrees/experiment-handoff-hardening/` (worktree off `origin/main` at commit `57799ad`).

Author: Line 31 anchors the experiment sandbox to `origin/main` at `57799ad`, and the diff hunks below say "apply against current main (commit 57799ad)". `origin/main` has since advanced past that commit (e.g. `ebee76d` and `49ebfdc` are now ahead). Consider either freezing the wording ("…against main as of 2026-05-08, commit 57799ad") or noting that the hunks may need a rebase before they apply cleanly. Pure documentation hygiene — does not block merge.

<!-- post-pr-review:v1:cc51c14ccecf03c3 -->

Author: Fixed in 931b971 — anchored the sandbox commit reference to "as of 2026-05-08, commit 57799ad" and noted that origin/main has advanced (so hunks may need a rebase before applying cleanly).

## Verification (how to reproduce)

```bash
cd .claude/worktrees/experiment-handoff-hardening/plugins/dotbabel
node tests/experiment/results/run.mjs              # local matrix → scores.md
node tests/experiment/results/run-roundtrip.mjs    # roundtrip → scores-roundtrip.md
node tests/experiment/results/hint-ab.mjs          # hint pre-flight → hint-ab.md
ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=sk-ant-... \
  node tests/experiment/results/llm-eval.mjs --tag rerun --approaches=baseline,A,B
```

Outputs land in `tests/experiment/results/` (untracked).

## Next step

`/spec dotbabel-core handoff-fidelity` to formalize the layered B-floor + A-opt-in design before implementation, OR `/fix-with-evidence handoff-hardening` to ship the 6 hunks above as a single PR with the experiment as the evidence link.

The hint A/B and the LLM-eval pass should be a follow-up; both are blocked on Anthropic credit top-up, and the result of either may motivate a separate small PR (changing `nextStepFor("codex")` text) independent of the extraction-layer changes.

## Sandbox cleanup

```bash
git worktree remove .claude/worktrees/experiment-handoff-hardening
```

> This document stays untracked in the main worktree at `docs/experiments/handoff-hardening-2026-05-08.md`.

Author: The closing sentence states the document "stays untracked in the main worktree", but this PR commits the file into git tracking, so the statement contradicts itself the moment the PR merges.

Suggested edit:

```suggestion
This document is tracked at `docs/experiments/handoff-hardening-2026-05-08.md` so the citation at `skills/handoff/references/digest-schema.md:144-145` resolves; sandbox copies under `.claude/worktrees/experiment-handoff-hardening/` remain ephemeral.
```

<!-- post-pr-review:v1:5e134e2ec8cd1214 -->

Author: Fixed in 931b971 — replaced "stays untracked" with the accurate tracked-status statement and a pointer to ephemeral sandbox copies.
